Subject:
Special Issue Fundamenta Informaticae: Relational and Algebraic Methods in Computer Science


Apologies for multiple copies of this email; please distribute as you
see fit.

                   CALL FOR CONTRIBUTIONS

		  Fundamenta  Informaticae
		      Special Issue on
    Relational and Algebraic Methods in Computer Science
                         Open  Call


Since 1994, the RAMiCS conference series has been the main venue for
research on relation algebras, Kleene algebras and similar algebraic
formalisms, and their applications as conceptual and methodological
tools in computer science and beyond.

The Fundamenta Informaticae journal has kindly agreed to publish a
Special Issue devoted to the themes of the RAMiCS conferences. This
follows up on RAMiCS 2024 which was held in Prague, collocated with
AiML, in August. We are calling for contributions based on the
presentations at RAMiCS 2024, but the special issue is open to papers
which are related to the themes of the conference without having been
presented at RAMiCS 2024.

Theoretical aspects of RAMiCS include semigroups, residuated lattices,
semirings, Kleene algebras, relation algebras, quantales and other
algebras; their connections with program logics and other logics;
their use in the theories of automata, concurrency, formal languages,
games, networks and programming languages; the development of
algebraic, algorithmic, category-theoretic, coalgebraic and proof-
theoretic methods for these theories; their formalisation with theorem
provers.

Applications include tools and techniques for program correctness,
specification and verification; quantitative and qualitative models
and semantics of computing systems and processes; algorithm design,
automated reasoning, network protocol analysis, social choice,
optimisation and control.

We are calling for submission of original work not published or under
review for publication elsewhere. The submission may or may not be
based on a previous contribution to RAMiCS 2024.  All articles
submitted to this special issue will undergo the usual rigorous
reviewing process of Fundamenta Informaticae, which will be
coordinated by the three guest editors Uli Fahrenberg, Wesley Fussner,
and Roland Glück.

The projected deadline for the special issue is 15 April 2025, but we
would appreciate if you could announce your intention to submit a
paper as soon as possible. We intend to publish the special issue by
April 2027. Fundamenta Informaticae is a "diamond" open access
journal: published papers are accessible without cost, there are no
publication fees, and authors retain the rights to their work. For
more information see

		https://fi.episciences.org/

SPECIAL ISSUE GUEST EDITORS

   Uli Fahrenberg, EPITA Rennes, France
   Wesley Fussner, Institute of Computer Science of the Czech Academy of
   	  	   Sciences, Prague, Czechia
   Roland Glück, German Aerospace Center, Augsburg, Germany
